Meeting Notes
	10/22/2014
		Aaron gave introduction
		Other member talked about working with computer vision at a unmanned drone
		competition
	11/5/2014
		Attendance: 4 members
	
		The meeting opened with a review of the previous meeting and events that 
		have occured since the previous meeting. This meeting largely covered the 
		topic or what is an unmanned system and what are some of it's defining 
		characteristics.
		
		MMRCA Fun Fly was a success with an attendance of around 20-25 people. There
		were lots of helicopters and multirotors present and was an overall enjoyable
		experience. For those interested the group meets every third Wednesday of the
		month at Shakespeare's Pizza.
		
		MUST is still holding a design competition for an icon to be put on orgsnyc 
		and to represent the team as a decal on competition platforms. The winner of
		the competition will win an unmanned system from www.amazon.com. (system 
		chosen through discussion between the winner and Aaron)
		
		News of Unmanned Systems over the past two weeks
			Michigan Police select the Aeryon SkyRanger to be used as their unmanned
			system across all of their counties statewide.
			
			Driverless Car Bill passes in New Jersey. The bill recognizes the legality
			of autonomous vehicle testing and operations in the state.
			
			A grant was given to the University of California, Berkeley to develop a 
			next generation surgical robot.
			
			UAV's are banned in India until a proper system of managing them can be 
			established.
			
			More stories and other unmanned systems information can be found at
			auvsi.org
		
		The meeting next addressed the definition of an unmanned system. An unmanned
		system is defined as a system without a human pilot or passenger such as a 
		paper airplane or a microwave. The unmanned systems will vary from one another
		by their degree of autonomy or the amount of required human input. For example
		does the system start up, run/operate or stop autonomously or are human inputs
		required for these functions. The level of autonomy of the system is dependant
		on two major factors, the autopilot or controller used and the vehicle 
		software/hardware. The autopilot is the more important of these two factors and
		is the primary interface to the unmanned system.
		
		The accessibility and availability of unmanned systems was the next topic of 
		discussion. There are many sites from which to purchase unmanned systems but 
		they generally are found in four basic formats. Kits that have to be completely
		assembled, almost ready to fly (ARF), bind and fly (BNF) which includes a 
		reciever and ready to fly (RTF) which has all of the components that are required
		for flight with minimal assembly. The benefits of this accessibility is that it 
		is easy to get started with unmanned systems, there are plenty of platforms to 
		choose from and replacement parts are relatively inexpensive. The cons are that 
		customer service and product quality vary as widely as the variety of avaliable 
		platforms, the BNF and RTF systems lead to not fully understanding the hardware 
		of the unmanned system and their affordability leads to unqualified people 
		purchasing and possibly crashing the systems leading to overall negativity in the
		view of the hobby to the media and the general public. 
		
		This last point was demonstrated with a video of a multirotor being crashed into 
		an observer in a crowded set of stands. Such failures are not always operator error
		and can result from multiple causes such as loss of communication from the operator
		to the system, a low battery or a hardware failure, however, the media will not care
		and so the need to operate safely should be stressed in order to avoid furthering a
		negative stereotype of the hobby in the media. When operating an unmanned system one
		always needs to be conscious of what could happen and have a plan in the event that
		something negative does happen.
		
		Another important point of consideration is that certain modules or configurations
		that are legal in one country are not necessarily legal in another country. Different
		countries have different reserved frequencies for use and this has to be carefully 
		considered during the design phase of a project because interfereing with these 
		reserved frequencies can lead to fines or even jail time.
		
		Another note regarding legal restrictions pertains to the FAA (Federal Aviation
		Administration). The FAA is an advisory administration on regulations for civilian
		aviation to legislative bodies. It should be noted that the FAA does not have the power
		to make laws themselves, however, they are a trusted administration by the legislative 
		branch of government. The FAA wants to declare FPV (First Person View) flying by 
		hobbists to be illegal for security reasons. Also the FAA would have unmanned systems
		hobbists believe that the laws regulating unmanned systems is very black and white even
		though there are lots of grey areas as to what is allowed. Due to not being a law 
		making body themselves, FPV hardware is still legal in the United States but, as was
		mentioned before, their opinions are held with high regard with legislative bodies and 
		so FPV hardware being available my not last.
		
		Summary of Accessability and Availability
			Unmanned systems are very accessable which is both a blessing and a curse. It makes
			entering the hobby easy, however, it allows irresponsible persons into the hobby as
			well which can bring harm to the reputation of unmanned systems.
			
			A team needs to take careful consideration as to where the system will be operating
			during the design phase as laws and regulations from available modules to radio 
			frequencies vary widely from country to country and the penalties for breaking these
			laws can be very severe.
			
		The meeting next covered characteristics of unmanned systems with an emphasis on aerial
		platforms due to extensive work with that type of system by the MUST president. First 
		posible applications for the systems were examined including imaging, security, 
		surveying, search and rescue and intelligence and reconnaissance. This is not an 
		exhaustive list of applications as new ideas are being made every day. We are on the
		brink of evolution for how we gather data.
		
		Next part of the characteristics discussed is the hardware that is common across the 
		different types of unmanned systems. These common pieces of hardware include motors,
		receivers, autopilot, speed controllers and power systems. 
		
		The motor will be run off of electricity or gas (engine) and they will vary by size and
		power consumption and power output. Bigger motors do not always lead to better
		performance and higher speeds and can actually be a detriment to the overall system. 
		
		The receiver operates by receiving signals from the transmitter and sending those
		signals to different portions of the platform. It has to be bound to the transmitter
		before it can be used. Also to note is that the receiver has to be properly mounted to
		the platform for system operation. This step is critical for system operation and is
		one of the most important steps in assembling the system. This is a case where the
		manual for the device should be thoroughly read before attaching. The different
		receivers will vary based on the number of channels that they can support and the mode
		in which they communicate. For example some receivers support channel hopping which can
		reduce latency issues between the transmitter and the receiver.
		
		The next piece of common hardware discussed was the autopilot. The autopilot works as 
		the brain of the unmanned system as it is the central point of interface for the rest
		of the hardware. The autopilot is also the piece of hardware that allows the unmanned
		system to be autonomous. The autopilots available vary widely in the number of 
		features available, the size of the autopilot and the power consumed by the autopilot.
		The autopilot must be placed as close to the system's center of gravity as possible
		so that it doesnt have to work as hard to stabilize. Also careful planning of should
		be made for the number of features that the autopilot needs to provide against the 
		power consumed by autopilots that provide those features.
		
		For systems with an electric motor an eletronic speed controller (ESC) will be needed.
		This will convert the throttle signal from the transmitter to a three phase power for
		the motor to ensure a steady power supply. The ESC's vary by input and output 
		capabilities. These are not required nor needed on systems with a gas powered engine.
		
		The last piece of common hardware discussed was the power supply for the system. A
		common type of battery for such systems are lithium polymer batteries. The power 
		system can theoretically be gas but is often electric. The power system is one of the 
		most important decisions when designing an unmanned systems because it is the 
		determining factor for the other components of the system.
		
		Possible applications for unmanned systems was discussed again. Imaging is a huge
		application for unmanned systems. Another application is security such as bomb
		disposal so that a replaceable robot is put in harms way instead of a human. Land
		surveying for construction companies is another possible application. The unmanned 
		systems create 3D topography maps for the construction companies which allows better
		site planning. Unmanned systems are also seeing use in search and rescue as land, air and
		sea systems are currently being integrated to aid in the speed of the search for 
		possible missing persons. Lastly unmanned systems are seeing use in the military. These
		systems are much higher quality than civilian based ones.
		
		It should be remembered however that unmanned systems are a new and constantly 
		evolving technology and new applications are being thought of daily. Keep in mind that
		a key factor in the design of new applications is the system platform itself. An 
		example of the new applications being thought of was to be shown in a video but the
		video was removed by the user. The video would have shown an unmanned system being 
		used to deliver a difibulator to persons in difficult to reach areas so that the 
		difibulator can be used even before emergency personal can reach the person in need.
		
		Questions
			Why do government models have the power to fly for hours? Are they just using things
			that are not available for civilian use?
				The response to this question was a theory that the government is using 
				technology that is not available to civilians as parts might still be classified
				or that they are using configurations that they are not posting.
				
		rcgroups.com is a good place for rc news
	11/19/2014
		Attendance: ~9 members
		
		This meeting dealt with the view of unmanned systems in popular culture. The meeting
		started off by watching an episode of South Park which focused primarily on drones as
		the show gives a good idea of some of the public's opinions on unmanned systems. The 
		discussion after the episode started off with the view of drones as a tool for invasion
		of privacy. We came to the conclusion that the drones themselves were not the problem 
		but rather people who misuse them create problems. The episode also emphasized two 
		polar extreme views on legality of drones. One was that all drones should be illegal 
		where the other was being incapable of believing that the usage of drones would ever 
		be abused. It was agreed by the members present that a middle ground should be reached
		where it is understood that drones could be misused and invade the privacy of others,
		however, they don't need to all be made illegal. One of the problems addressed is that 
		a code of ethics for hobbist unmanned systems flyers is that the code of ethics is not
		binding nor enforced and so it carrys no significant weight to keep a disreputable 
		person from using drones to invade anothers privacy.
		
		One reason that the general public may react more to unmanned systems being used to 
		invade their privacy as opposed to the online measures that the NSA has been using 
		recently is that there is a visual aspect to the unmanned system. With the NSA it's 
		more difficult to conceptualize the kind of information and data they collect and how
		it could be used as opposed to a camera on a flying device hovering in a window. This 
		leads to a larger backlash against drones should one be caught invading the privacy of
		another person.
		
		Last item of the meeting was that the design contest for an icon for the Mizzou Unmanned
		Systems Team ends on December first. Anyone still wanting to participate needs to turn 
		in a design to Aaron before that time.
	12/3/2014
		Attendance: 8 members
		
		For this meeting Shakespeares was generous enough to donate pizza. The meeting started 
		with a discussion on what the team could do to continue recieving pizza from shakespeares
		and generally how to get sponsors for the team. One idea for something that could be done
		for Shakespeares is to make a video advertisement for the company featuring drones with
		the pizzas. Another possible interaction with Shakespeares is to use them to help fund
		raise for the team. Shakespeares has a fundraising program where a group (such as MUST) 
		hands out flyers for the fundraising event and when the flyers are shown to Shakespeares
		a percentage of the profit gets sent to the group. This would not be a way to continue the
		free pizza, however, the profit could be used to buy pizza for the team from a cheaper
		pizza restaurant such as Italian Village. Another item mentioned in regards to sponsor 
		relations was visibility of the team. The more events and competitions that we take part
		in, the more often sponsorship logos would be able to be seen and therefore make it more
		reasonable to sponsor the team. Also increasing public visibility could bring in new 
		members to the team who are interested in unmanned systems.

		Another idea for a partnership with Shakespeares was to create/design ground drones that
		could deliver pizzas for the company. This idea brought up many questions of feasibility
		such as what would stop a person from taking the pizza or tampering with the drone while
		it is on its way to deliver a pizza. One idea was to make the drone heavy with a lock box 
		so that it would be impractical to steal the pizza or drone but it was mentioned that this
		could have adverse affects on the performance of the drone. Another problem mentioned was
		the legality of where the drone could drive considering it's illegal for bicyclists to 
		ride on the sidewalks. Those present at the meeting were unsure of how the ground drones 
		would be considered legally.
	1/20/2015
		Attendance: Aaron, John, Brandon, Will
		
		The meeting started off with discussing how and when future meetings would transpire. It
		was decided that meetings should be held from 4 to 6 PM on Wednesdays with the first 
		meeting of the month be a general meeting and the rest be build meetings/meeting up for 
		research. The build meetings would be more casual and be a time for people to work on
		the entry for competitions as well as individual research work time. A space will be 
		needed for the meetings and the current plan is to use C1212 in Lafferre until further
		notice. It should be noted that the FLC meets in C1212 at 6 however this event is not often
		populated and therefore any conflict should be easy to resolve. Also the tables will need
		to be protected if work is being done and Aaron mentioned that someone has roll out pads 
		that can be used. Work should be done however to find a dedicated workspace for the team
		for the future. (Team has storage for projects through Orgsync). Due to the timing of the
		meeting it was agreed that providing food should not be considered a necessity.
		
		It was suggested that a google doc should be created listing the contents of the drone
		closet inventory.
		
		The next main item of the meeting was to develop general plans for the semester for the 
		team. First we need to focus on getting more members to join the team. Aaron signed up
		for a position at the student involvement fair on January 22nd in the Student Center but
		as of the time of the meeting he has yet to hear back as to whether or not we have a spot.
		Another way to spread the information of the team is to put up flyers like last semester
		but add meeting time and place, mention that the team is involved in competitions and add
		the logo. In addition it was discussed that the team could do demonstrations of UAV's on campus
		Also discussed was methods of bringing new members up to speed with unmanned systems. Ideas
		included sending them to the old meeting videos, holding a new member meeting if there are
		lots of new members, having existing members mentor the new members and to add the new 
		members to existing research and project groups. The next major issue with the plans for 
		the semester was involvement in a competition. Currently the team is signed up for the SUAS
		competition and has paid the fee for entry. The plane used last year by members of the team
		is still available and can be made operational for the upcoming competition. Things that 
		would need to be done are to put a gas motor on the plane to be used, develop a long range 
		wireless network for the plane, tune up the plane and get the target recognition software
		working. Another possible competition is the IARC (aerialroboticscompetition.org). Aaron
		is going to look more into this competition and provide more information about it at a later
		date. It was agreed that the team should only be involved in one competition this semester
		due to the low number of members.
		
		Another item brought up at the meeting was the creation of a MUST website to use instead of
		the facebook page. It would provide a more professional look and we could direct potential
		sponsers or other important non-members to this site. The site wouldnt have the conectivity
		that facebook has however and so maybe continue to use the facebook page for team 
		communication. It was decided that a place holder website could be created until a member 
		is found who would be interested in maintaining an official site.
		
		Lastly a donation form for a steel bridge team at Missouri SnT was shown as a good idea for
		our team. The form would have different donation amounts and the benefits that those amounts
		would provide. Also mentioned was the idea of a term length for the benefits. The two term
		lengths suggested were a full year or 6 months so that as the team changes from semester to
		semester they dont have to be held to sponsorships decided upon by the team of the previous
		semester. Jacob Sweet was going to talk to the company that he interned with over break as
		to potential donation amounts and what they might like for the amount to try to get a 
		baseline that we could use to create a more formal form.
		
		To do by next meeting
		- Find out from orgsync if we have a table at the Involvement Fair
		- Edit the flyer
		- look into possibilities for demonstrations on campus
		- Jacob Sweet donation from Orschelin
		- Donation Form
		- Look into OpenCV for Python
		- Ways to get new and active members
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
	